PR for BXMSDOC-7028: Update the configuring BC settings and properties document based on BAPLs. (#101)
kaldesai/kie-docs: doc-content/jbpm-docs/src/main/asciidoc/BAM/DashbuilderRuntime-section.adoc

image::BAM/DashbuilderRuntimeWelcomePage.png[]

== Exporting Dashbuilder data

You can export the dashbuilder related data such as datasets, pages, and navigation from {CENTRAL} as a ZIP file.

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.

. To export the dashbuilder related data, do any of the following tasks:
+
--
If you want to export all dashbuilder data as a ZIP file, do the following tasks:

... On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click *Export all*.
+
An `export.zip` file containing all dashbuilder data is downloaded. The `export.zip` file structure is separated by data type. For example:
+
[source]
----
dashbuilder/datasets/definitions/dataset-example1.dset
dashbuilder/datasets/definitions/dataset-example2.dset
dashbuilder/datasets/readme.md
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/readme.md
dashbuilder/navigation/navigation/navtree.json
dashbuilder/navigation/readme.md
VERSION
----

> If you want to export customized user created dashbuilder data as a ZIP file, do the following tasks:

Reviewer: Just one note here - in the "Export all" option, it's also user created data that is exported (user created + provided). Just saying this, because it could be a bit misleading for the user.

Author: Done

dashbuilder/datasets/definitions/dataset-example2.dset
dashbuilder/datasets/readme.md
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/readme.md
dashbuilder/navigation/navigation/navtree.json
dashbuilder/navigation/readme.md
VERSION
----

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.
+
WARNING: You should only import Dashbuilder data to a clean installation of {PRODUCT} in order to avoid overwriting data on an existing system.

. On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click the *Choose File* icon.

. Navigate to the ZIP file you want to import and select the file.

. Click the *Upload* icon.

. Click *Import*.

== Deploying dashboards from {CENTRAL} on dashbuilder runtime

You can automatically deploy the dashboards from {CENTRAl} on dashbuilder runtime. {CENTRAl} is linked to dashbuilder runtime with the help of gradual export feature.

.Prerequisites

* Dasbuilder runtime is configured on the system.

> * You must set the `dashbuilder.runtime.multi`, `dashbuilder.runtime.location`, and `dashbuilder.export.dir` system properties to `true` in the `standalone.xml` file to enable the feature.

Reviewer: This is the same text as in one of the previous files. Could you please fix this?

Author: Changes the system properties description.

dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/readme.md
dashbuilder/navigation/navigation/navtree.json
dashbuilder/navigation/readme.md
VERSION
----

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.
+
WARNING: You should only import Dashbuilder data to a clean installation of {PRODUCT} in order to avoid overwriting data on an existing system.

. On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click the *Choose File* icon.

. Navigate to the ZIP file you want to import and select the file.

. Click the *Upload* icon.

. Click *Import*.

== Deploying dashboards from {CENTRAL} on dashbuilder runtime

You can automatically deploy the dashboards from {CENTRAl} on dashbuilder runtime. {CENTRAl} is linked to dashbuilder runtime with the help of gradual export feature.

.Prerequisites

* Dasbuilder runtime is configured on the system.
* You have set the `dashbuilder.runtime.multi` system property to `true` in the `standalone.xml` file.

> * You have set the value of `dashbuilder.runtime.location` system property to the dashboard root URL.

Reviewer: Same comment as above

Author: Done

+
For example:
+
[source]
----
<property name="dashbuilder.runtime.location" value=" http://localhost:8080"
----
* You have set the `dashbuilder.export.dir` system property to the shared directory where Dashbuilder Runtime reads its model.
+
For example:
+
[source]
----
<property name="dashbuilder.export.dir" value="/tmp/dashbuilder/models/"
----

.Procedure

. Start {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu → Design → Pages*.
. In the *Components* panel, drag and edit the required component types to the canvas.
. Click *Save*.
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.
. On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click *Custom export*.
. In *Export Wizard* panel, verify the pages that you want to include in the ZIP file and click *Next*.
. Select *Export Wizard* and click *Open*.
+

> You can see the dashbuilder runtime home page. If you are not logged in, you are redirected to the log in page.

Reviewer: login page

Author: done

+
The selected data is exported and dashbuilder runtime updates the model content when it is opened.

== Execution modes
Dashbuilder Runtime has execution modes, which are:

* *SINGLE*: This is the default mode. When a dashboard is uploaded then it will be used in Runtime. It is also possible to refer on dashboards under the directory configured using the system property `dashbuilder.import.base.dir`, default value is `/tmp/dashbuilder/models`.
If a file is in the `models` directory, then it is possible to load it using `RUNTIME_URL?import=FILE_NAME` in the URL. For example, the file `sales_dashboard.zip`, placed in the `models` directory, can be loaded using `RUNTIME_URL?import=sales_dashboard`(notice that the file extension is not necessary).
* *STATIC*: In this mode Dashbuilder Runtime will not prompt users for upload and use the model file configured using system property `dashbuilder.runtime.import`.
* *MULTI*:  Finally in multi mode users can upload multiple dashboards in the same Dashbuilder Runtime installation. To enable it the system property `dashbuilder.runtime.multi` must be set as true.

image::BAM/DashbuilderRuntimeMultiMode.png[]

== Embedding dashboards

> Dashboards running in Dashbuilder Runtime can be embedded in third-party applications using an `iframe`. To embed dashboards, the query parameter *standalone* should be added to the URL along with the dashboard page name using the query param *perspective*:

Reviewer: In case of multi mode, you also need to specify which dashboard you want to use, using the property import={dashboard_name}, hence the resulting URL whould be RUNTIME_URL?standalone&import=DASHBOARD_NAME&perspective=PAGE_NAME

... Click *Finish*.

--

== Importing Dashbuilder data

You can import Dashbuilder data to {CENTRAL} from a ZIP file if the archive is structured in the same way as the following example:

[source]
----
dashbuilder/datasets/definitions/dataset-example1.dset
dashbuilder/datasets/definitions/dataset-example2.dset
dashbuilder/datasets/readme.md
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page1/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout
dashbuilder/perspectives/page2/perspective_layout.plugin
dashbuilder/perspectives/readme.md
dashbuilder/navigation/navigation/navtree.json
dashbuilder/navigation/readme.md
VERSION
----

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.
+
WARNING: You should only import Dashbuilder data to a clean installation of {PRODUCT} in order to avoid overwriting data on an existing system.

. On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click the *Choose File* icon.

. Navigate to the ZIP file you want to import and select the file.

. Click the *Upload* icon.

. Click *Import*.

> == Deploying dashboards from {CENTRAL} on dashbuilder runtime

Reviewer 2: Why are we capitalizing Dashbuilder Runtime, if it should be written as is, then I think we need to follow the same for this title. If not, we should not capitalize it anywhere and follow the consistency. Can you please confirm and fix this?
```suggestion
== Deploying dashboards from {CENTRAL} on Dashbuilder Runtime
```

Author: I confirmed and it should be Dashbuilder Runtime. I have changed the occurnces.

> You can automatically deploy the dashboards from {CENTRAl} on dashbuilder runtime. {CENTRAl} is linked to dashbuilder runtime with the help of gradual export feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can automatically deploy the dashboards from {CENTRAl} on Dashbuilder Runtime. {CENTRAl} is linked to the Dashbuilder Runtime using a gradual export feature.
```

.Prerequisites

* Dasbuilder runtime is configured on the system.
* You have set the `dashbuilder.runtime.multi` system property to `true` in the `standalone.xml` file.

> * You have set the value of `dashbuilder.runtime.location` system property to the Dashbuilder Runtime URL.

Reviewer 2: Same as above

+
For example:
+
[source]
----
<property name="dashbuilder.runtime.location" value=" http://localhost:8080"
----

> * You have set the `dashbuilder.export.dir` system property to the shared directory where Dashbuilder Runtime reads its model.

Reviewer 2: same as above comment

+
For example:
+
[source]
----
<property name="dashbuilder.export.dir" value="/tmp/dashbuilder/models/"
----

.Procedure

> . Start {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu → Design → Pages*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Start {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu* → *Design* → *Pages*.
```

. In the *Components* panel, drag and edit the required component types to the canvas.
. Click *Save*.
. In {CENTRAL}, select the *Admin* icon in the top-right corner of the screen and select *Dashbuilder Data Transfer*.
. On the *Dashbuilder Data Transfer* page, click *Custom export*.

> . In *Export Wizard* panel, verify the pages that you want to include in the ZIP file and click *Next*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify the pages that you want to include in the ZIP file in the*Export Wizard* panel and click *Next*.
```

. Select *Export Wizard* and click *Open*.
+

> You can see the dashbuilder runtime home page. If you are not logged in, you are redirected to the login page.

Reviewer 2: Not sure, whether we need to capitalize dashbuilder runtime or not. Please confirm. For now, I am being consistent to what is already there. 
```suggestion
You can see the home page of the Dashbuilder Runtime. If you are not logged in, you are redirected to the login page.
```

> . Log in to Dashbuilder Runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to the Dashbuilder Runtime.
```

> . Go to *Dashboards → Runtime Dashboards* and select the exported ZIP file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Go to *Dashboards* → *Runtime Dashboards* and select the exported ZIP file.
```

+

> The selected data is exported and dashbuilder runtime updates the model content when it is opened.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The selected data is exported and Dashbuilder Runtime updates the model content when it is opened.
```

== Execution modes
Dashbuilder Runtime has execution modes, which are:

> * *SINGLE*: This is the default mode. When a dashboard is uploaded then it will be used in Runtime. It is also possible to refer on dashboards under the directory configured using the system property `dashbuilder.import.base.dir`, default value is `/tmp/dashbuilder/models`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *SINGLE*: This is the default mode. In single mode, the dashboard is used in runtime when uploaded. You can refer to dashboards under the directory configured using the `dashbuilder.import.base.dir` system property (default value is `/tmp/dashbuilder/models`).
```

If a file is in the `models` directory, then it is possible to load it using `RUNTIME_URL?import=FILE_NAME` in the URL. For example, the file `sales_dashboard.zip`, placed in the `models` directory, can be loaded using `RUNTIME_URL?import=sales_dashboard`(notice that the file extension is not necessary).

> * *STATIC*: In this mode Dashbuilder Runtime will not prompt users for upload and use the model file configured using system property `dashbuilder.runtime.import`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *STATIC*: In static mode, the Dashbuilder Runtime does not prompt you to upload and use the model file that is configured using the `dashbuilder.runtime.import` system property. 
```

> * *MULTI*:  Finally in multi mode users can upload multiple dashboards in the same Dashbuilder Runtime installation. To enable it the system property `dashbuilder.runtime.multi` must be set as true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *MULTI*: In multi-mode, you can upload multiple dashboards in the same Dashbuilder Runtime installation. To enable it, set the `dashbuilder.runtime.multi` system property as true.
```

image::BAM/DashbuilderRuntimeMultiMode.png[]

== Embedding dashboards

> Dashboards running in Dashbuilder Runtime can be embedded in third-party applications using an `iframe`. To embed dashboards, the query parameter *standalone* should be added to the URL along with the dashboard page name using the query param *perspective*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dashboards running in Dashbuilder Runtime can be embedded in third-party applications using an `iframe`. To embed dashboards, the *standalone* query parameter must be added to the URL along with the dashboard page name using the *perspective* parameter:
```

`RUNTIME_URL?standalone&perspective=PAGE_NAME`

> In case of multi mode, it is also required to specify the import id:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of multi-mode, it is also required to specify the import ID, for example:
```

`RUNTIME_URL?standalone&perspective=PAGE_NAME&import=IMPORT_NAME`

> In case of multi mode, you must specify which dashboard you want to use by using the `import={dashboard_name}` property:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of multi-mode, you must specify which dashboard you want to use by using the `import={dashboard_name}` property, for example:
```

| Values

|*dashbuilder.import.base.dir*

> |Sets the directory where ZIP models should be placed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Sets the directory where ZIP models must be placed.
```

| true / false

|*dashbuilder.runtime.multi*

> |Enables/disables multi mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Enables or disables multi-mode.
```
